README.md, before:

# CogVLM2

[中文版README](./README_zh.md)

<div align="center">
<img src=resources/logo.svg width="40%"/> 
</div>

<p align="center">
    👋 Join our <a href="resources/WECHAT.md" target="_blank">Wechat</a> · 💡Try it <a href="http://36.103.203.44:7861/" target="_blank">Online</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
📍Experience the larger-scale CogVLM model (GLM-4V) on the <a href="https://open.bigmodel.cn/dev/api#glm-4v">ZhipuAI Open Platform</a>.
</p>


## Recent updates

- 🔥🔥 **News**: ``2024/5/24``: We have released the [Int4 version model](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B-int4), which requires only 16GB of video memory for inference. You can also run on-the-fly int4 version by passing `--quant 4`.
- 🔥 **News**: ``2024/5/20``: We released the next generation model CogVLM2, which is based on llama3-8b and is equivalent (or better) to GPT-4V in most cases ! Welcome to download!

## Model introduction

We launch a new generation of **CogVLM2** series of models and open source two models based
on [Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct). Compared with the previous
generation of CogVLM open source models, the CogVLM2 series of open source models have the following improvements:

1. Significant improvements in many benchmarks such as `TextVQA`, `DocVQA`.
2. Support **8K** content length.
3. Support image resolution up to **1344 * 1344**.
4. Provide an open source model version that supports both **Chinese and English**.

You can see the details of the **CogVLM2** family of open source models in the table below:

| Model name       | cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B                                                                                                                                                                                                               | cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Base Model       | Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Language         | English                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Chinese, English                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Model size       | 19B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 19B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Task             | Image understanding, dialogue model                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Image understanding, dialogue model                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Model link       | [🤗 Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B)  [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B/)  [💫 Wise Model](https://wisemodel.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B/) | [🤗 Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B) [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B/)  [ 💫 Wise Model](https://wisemodel.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B/) |
| Demo Page        | [📙 Official Demo](http://36.103.203.44:7861/)                                                                                                                                                                                        | [📙 Official Demo](http://36.103.203.44:7861/) [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/studios/ZhipuAI/Cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-Demo/summary)                                                                                                                |
| Int4 model       | [🤗 Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B-int4)  [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B-int4)                                                                       | [🤗 Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B-int4) [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B-int4)                                                                                |
| Text length      | 8K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 8K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Image resolution | 1344 * 1344                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 1344 * 1344                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

## Benchmark

Our open source models have achieved good results in many lists compared to the previous generation of CogVLM open
source models. Its excellent performance can compete with some non-open source models, as shown in the table below:

| Model                      | Open Source | LLM Size | TextVQA  | DocVQA   | ChartQA  | OCRbench | MMMU     | MMVet    | MMBench  |
|----------------------------|-------------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| CogVLM1.1                  | ✅           | 7B       | 69.7     | -        | 68.3     | 590      | 37.3     | 52.0     | 65.8     |
| LLaVA-1.5                  | ✅           | 13B      | 61.3     | -        | -        | 337      | 37.0     | 35.4     | 67.7     |
| Mini-Gemini                | ✅           | 34B      | 74.1     | -        | -        | -        | 48.0     | 59.3     | 80.6     |
| LLaVA-NeXT-LLaMA3          | ✅           | 8B       | -        | 78.2     | 69.5     | -        | 41.7     | -        | 72.1     |
| LLaVA-NeXT-110B            | ✅           | 110B     | -        | 85.7     | 79.7     | -        | 49.1     | -        | 80.5     |
| InternVL-1.5               | ✅           | 20B      | 80.6     | 90.9     | **83.8** | 720      | 46.8     | 55.4     | **82.3** |
| QwenVL-Plus                | ❌           | -        | 78.9     | 91.4     | 78.1     | 726      | 51.4     | 55.7     | 67.0     |
| Claude3-Opus               | ❌           | -        | -        | 89.3     | 80.8     | 694      | **59.4** | 51.7     | 63.3     |
| Gemini Pro 1.5             | ❌           | -        | 73.5     | 86.5     | 81.3     | -        | 58.5     | -        | -        |
| GPT-4V                     | ❌           | -        | 78.0     | 88.4     | 78.5     | 656      | 56.8     | **67.7** | 75.0     |
| **CogVLM2-LLaMA3**         | ✅           | 8B       | 84.2     | **92.3** | 81.0     | 756      | 44.3     | 60.4     | 80.5     |
| **CogVLM2-LLaMA3-Chinese** | ✅           | 8B       | **85.0** | 88.4     | 74.7     | **780**  | 42.8     | 60.5     | 78.9     |

All reviews were obtained without using any external OCR tools ("pixel only").

## Project structure

This open source repos will help developers to quickly get started with the basic calling methods of the CogVLM2 open
source model, fine-tuning examples, OpenAI API format calling examples, etc. The specific project structure is as
follows, you can click to enter the corresponding tutorial link:

+ [basic_demo](basic_demo/README.md) folder includes:
  + **CLI** demo.
  + **CLI** demo with *multiple GPUs* .
  + **Web** demo by *chainlit*.
  + **API** server with *OpenAI format*.
  + **Int4** is enabled easily with `--quant 4` with 16GB memory usage.
  
+ [finetune_demo](finetune_demo/README.md) folder includes.
  + [**peft**](https://github.com/huggingface/peft) framework examples for efficient finetuning.
  + [TODO] [**sat**](http://github.com/THUDM/SwissArmyTransformer) framework examples for reliable finetuning.
  + [TODO] transformation scripts to convert checkpoints from `sat` to `huggingface` format.

## License

This model is released under the CogVLM2 [CogVLM2 LICENSE](MODEL_LICENSE). For models built with Meta Llama 3, please
also adhere to the [LLAMA3_LICENSE](https://llama.meta.com/llama3/license/).

## Citation

If you find our work helpful, please consider citing the following papers

```
@misc{wang2023cogvlm,
      title={CogVLM: Visual Expert for Pretrained Language Models}, 
      author={Weihan Wang and Qingsong Lv and Wenmeng Yu and Wenyi Hong and Ji Qi and Yan Wang and Junhui Ji and Zhuoyi Yang and Lei Zhao and Xixuan Song and Jiazheng Xu and Bin Xu and Juanzi Li and Yuxiao Dong and Ming Ding and Jie Tang},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2311.03079},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

Commit message:

add useful link and fix zero_3 wrong code

README.md, after:

# CogVLM2

[中文版README](./README_zh.md)

<div align="center">
<img src=resources/logo.svg width="40%"/> 
</div>

<p align="center">
    👋 Join our <a href="resources/WECHAT.md" target="_blank">Wechat</a> · 💡Try it <a href="http://36.103.203.44:7861/" target="_blank">Online</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
📍Experience the larger-scale CogVLM model (GLM-4V) on the <a href="https://open.bigmodel.cn/dev/api#glm-4v">ZhipuAI Open Platform</a>.
</p>


## Recent updates

- 🔥🔥 **News**: ``2024/5/24``: We have released the [Int4 version model](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B-int4), which requires only 16GB of video memory for inference. You can also run on-the-fly int4 version by passing `--quant 4`.
- 🔥 **News**: ``2024/5/20``: We released the next generation model CogVLM2, which is based on llama3-8b and is equivalent (or better) to GPT-4V in most cases ! Welcome to download!

## Model introduction

We launch a new generation of **CogVLM2** series of models and open source two models based
on [Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct). Compared with the previous
generation of CogVLM open source models, the CogVLM2 series of open source models have the following improvements:

1. Significant improvements in many benchmarks such as `TextVQA`, `DocVQA`.
2. Support **8K** content length.
3. Support image resolution up to **1344 * 1344**.
4. Provide an open source model version that supports both **Chinese and English**.

You can see the details of the **CogVLM2** family of open source models in the table below:

| Model name       | cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B                                                                                                                                                                                                               | cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Base Model       | Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Language         | English                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Chinese, English                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Model size       | 19B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 19B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Task             | Image understanding, dialogue model                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Image understanding, dialogue model                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Model link       | [🤗 Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B)  [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B/)  [💫 Wise Model](https://wisemodel.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B/) | [🤗 Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B) [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B/)  [ 💫 Wise Model](https://wisemodel.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B/) |
| Demo Page        | [📙 Official Demo](http://36.103.203.44:7861/)                                                                                                                                                                                        | [📙 Official Demo](http://36.103.203.44:7861/) [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/studios/ZhipuAI/Cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-Demo/summary)                                                                                                                |
| Int4 model       | [🤗 Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B-int4)  [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chat-19B-int4)                                                                       | [🤗 Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/THUDM/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B-int4) [🤖 ModelScope](https://modelscope.cn/models/ZhipuAI/cogvlm2-llama3-chinese-chat-19B-int4)                                                                                |
| Text length      | 8K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 8K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Image resolution | 1344 * 1344                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 1344 * 1344                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

## Benchmark

Our open source models have achieved good results in many lists compared to the previous generation of CogVLM open
source models. Its excellent performance can compete with some non-open source models, as shown in the table below:

| Model                      | Open Source | LLM Size | TextVQA  | DocVQA   | ChartQA  | OCRbench | MMMU     | MMVet    | MMBench  |
|----------------------------|-------------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| CogVLM1.1                  | ✅           | 7B       | 69.7     | -        | 68.3     | 590      | 37.3     | 52.0     | 65.8     |
| LLaVA-1.5                  | ✅           | 13B      | 61.3     | -        | -        | 337      | 37.0     | 35.4     | 67.7     |
| Mini-Gemini                | ✅           | 34B      | 74.1     | -        | -        | -        | 48.0     | 59.3     | 80.6     |
| LLaVA-NeXT-LLaMA3          | ✅           | 8B       | -        | 78.2     | 69.5     | -        | 41.7     | -        | 72.1     |
| LLaVA-NeXT-110B            | ✅           | 110B     | -        | 85.7     | 79.7     | -        | 49.1     | -        | 80.5     |
| InternVL-1.5               | ✅           | 20B      | 80.6     | 90.9     | **83.8** | 720      | 46.8     | 55.4     | **82.3** |
| QwenVL-Plus                | ❌           | -        | 78.9     | 91.4     | 78.1     | 726      | 51.4     | 55.7     | 67.0     |
| Claude3-Opus               | ❌           | -        | -        | 89.3     | 80.8     | 694      | **59.4** | 51.7     | 63.3     |
| Gemini Pro 1.5             | ❌           | -        | 73.5     | 86.5     | 81.3     | -        | 58.5     | -        | -        |
| GPT-4V                     | ❌           | -        | 78.0     | 88.4     | 78.5     | 656      | 56.8     | **67.7** | 75.0     |
| **CogVLM2-LLaMA3**         | ✅           | 8B       | 84.2     | **92.3** | 81.0     | 756      | 44.3     | 60.4     | 80.5     |
| **CogVLM2-LLaMA3-Chinese** | ✅           | 8B       | **85.0** | 88.4     | 74.7     | **780**  | 42.8     | 60.5     | 78.9     |

All reviews were obtained without using any external OCR tools ("pixel only").

## Project structure

This open source repos will help developers to quickly get started with the basic calling methods of the CogVLM2 open
source model, fine-tuning examples, OpenAI API format calling examples, etc. The specific project structure is as
follows, you can click to enter the corresponding tutorial link:

+ [basic_demo](basic_demo/README.md) folder includes:
  + **CLI** demo.
  + **CLI** demo with *multiple GPUs* .
  + **Web** demo by *chainlit*.
  + **API** server with *OpenAI format*.
  + **Int4** is enabled easily with `--quant 4` with 16GB memory usage.
  
+ [finetune_demo](finetune_demo/README.md) folder includes.
  + [**peft**](https://github.com/huggingface/peft) framework examples for efficient finetuning.
  + [TODO] [**sat**](http://github.com/THUDM/SwissArmyTransformer) framework examples for reliable finetuning.
  + [TODO] transformation scripts to convert checkpoints from `sat` to `huggingface` format.

## Useful Links

In addition to the official inference code, you can also refer to the following community-provided inference solutions:
 + [**xinference**](https://github.com/xorbitsai/inference/pull/1551)

## License

This model is released under the CogVLM2 [CogVLM2 LICENSE](MODEL_LICENSE). For models built with Meta Llama 3, please
also adhere to the [LLAMA3_LICENSE](https://llama.meta.com/llama3/license/).

## Citation

If you find our work helpful, please consider citing the following papers

```
@misc{wang2023cogvlm,
      title={CogVLM: Visual Expert for Pretrained Language Models}, 
      author={Weihan Wang and Qingsong Lv and Wenmeng Yu and Wenyi Hong and Ji Qi and Yan Wang and Junhui Ji and Zhuoyi Yang and Lei Zhao and Xixuan Song and Jiazheng Xu and Bin Xu and Juanzi Li and Yuxiao Dong and Ming Ding and Jie Tang},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2311.03079},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```
